# What is Art?

1. The idea I had for my sketch was to introduce a different narrative. By combining language, culture, and geography, I hoped to have sent a message depicting the resilience of Navajo people, and all Indigenous nations. The intended audience is both Navajo and non-Navajo people, because by incorporating the Navajo language I wanted to encourage my generation to relearn our language as well as encourage non-Native people to understand its complexity. My sketch shows the viewer how beautiful our traditional art work is i.e the Navajo baskets and Navajo seal. It also shows our homelands of Monument Valley, which remains part of our reservation. The colors I used symbolized sunrise and sunset depending on the movement of the cursor. I chose this because Monument Valley has the most beautiful sunrises and sunsets and I wanted to share that. I am very proud of the resilience of my tribe. I wanted to convey this and share it with my viewers. As the only Native person in most, if not all, of my classes at Duke, I enjoy sharing my culture with my peers.

2. I really appreciated Jeff Koon's idea of art, "art is a vehicle of acceptance, acceptance of oneself, and eventually acceptance of others. I like to think of the process of art because when I see a beautiful piece I want to know who created this piece and what influenced them to do so. In this way I guess I think of art as a process moreso than I do the final product. The display of art to me displays diversity in the way we view life and create art out of our interpretations of moments. Additionally, I found the Pollen from Hazelnut to exeplify this idea of art as a process, but it also introduced the concept of art as patience. In Simeon Barclay's interview he said something that really struck me about art and identity. One must, "reimagine yourself, you have to, or you just didn't exist". Simeon introduces the idea of creating ones existance rather than letting ones environment completely dictating ones outcomes. I think all of these perspectives fall in line with the way I initially approached doing my sketch and the idea I had for my hopes of how people engaged with it. 



